chore(gen): docs content review 2024-08-26 (#3626)
scaleway/docs-content: dedibox-network/rpn/reference-content/private-networks-overview.mdx

  paragraph: This page explains the different private network types and offers available at Scaleway and Dedibox, and compares their different capabilities and features.
tags: dedibox private-networks private network
dates:
  validation: 2024-08-26
categories:
  - dedibox-network
---

## Private Networks between Dedibox and Scaleway cloud products

Network connectivity is crucial for deploying infrastructure on the Internet, impacting both performance and security. Achieving low latency and secure data transfer over public networks is essential for successful operations.

> The Internet was initially designed for academic data sharing, with minimal focus on security. As it evolved into the global network we rely on today, it brought about new challenges, including exposure to Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attacks and other threats. Despite advancements in security technologies, the Internet remains a public network where risks persist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Internet was initially designed for academic data sharing, with minimal focus on security. As it evolved into the global network we rely on today, new challenges arose, including exposure to Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attacks and other threats. Despite advancements in security technologies, the Internet remains a public network where risks persist.
```

Scaleway offers two RPN variants:

- **RPNv1**: Basic service with a static private IP and up to 1 Gbps network speed.
- **RPNv2**: Advanced service with VLAN support and up to 25 Gbps bandwidth, ideal for latency-sensitive applications.

For instance, with six dedicated servers, you can create multiple RPN groups:

```
  RPN-group-1 = server 1 and 2  # Servers 1 and 2 can communicate
  RPN-group-2 = server 1, 6, 3  # Servers 1, 6, and 3 can communicate
  RPN-group-3 = server 1, 4, 5  # Servers 1, 4, and 5 can communicate
```

Servers from different Dedibox accounts can also join an RPN with permission. The **RPNv2** feature supports high bandwidth and real VLANs, making it suitable for tasks like large databases or load balancing.

<Lightbox src="scaleway-private-networks-table2.webp" width="500" alt="" />​ 

### Building Private Networks on Scaleway

Scaleway offers the **Private Networks** feature for all Instances, enabling secure, isolated communication within an Availability Zone, independent of the Internet. These Private Networks function as layer 2 Ethernet networks.

> Instances connected to a Private Network automatically gain a virtual network interface, facilitating seamless internal communication without requiring a reboot. Multiple private networks can be assigned to each Instance, allowing for flexible and complex network configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instances connected to a Private Network automatically gain a virtual network interface, facilitating seamless internal communication without requiring a reboot. Multiple Private Networks can be assigned to each Instance, allowing for flexible and complex network configurations.
```
